This is the library of Pope Pius VII Pius VII Pius VII Pius VII Why are these books here?
Pius VII was from Cesena His family was Chiaramonti's family from Cesena But don't the Pope's books go into the Vatican library?
Yes, but Pius VII was the Pope of Napoleon.
who was prisoner of Napoleon in French.
And when we returned in Italy, his library was brought in, had brought in Cesena.
It's a magnificent library.
Yes, he had a lot of beautiful business.
Was he a bibliophile?
No, no.
He was interested in archaeology.
So how did he come to collect these books?
present, a lot of gifts.
And these cabinets are his or they were created for the library?
Yes, but in 1941.
So you are responsible for this library too?
Yes, but the property of the Pius was to the state.
It is to the state.
It's a state library deposited in... Very interesting.
And how long has this been the public library for the city?
At the beginning of 19th century.
1810.
That's great.
That's the vulgar.
Are there any... Where did he get all these soldiers?
Where did the Pope get all of these?
These were given to him too, you think?
These were presents, these books?
No, no, the core books didn't come from the Pope.
These are not the Pope's books?
No, core books...
were on right from Cacivel, on left from Cardinal Bessarion.
That's the same Cardinal you were talking about in there.
We look in fact here at a portrait of a strange portrait of Cardinal Bessarion.
He's the Greek
cardinal again you're talking about.
Now, did he live in Trebizone?
That really is crazy.
On the Black Sea.
Trebizone is a portal on the Black Sea.
I'm going to check him out when I go home.
Do you know perhaps Mr. Staikos, Costas Staikos in Athens?
No.
Who is he?
He's an architect, but also a publisher.
No.
Who organized in Athens last year a great exhibition about libraries, about ancient libraries.
Costas?
Costas Staikos.
St.
A-I-K-O-S.
Is it Greek in Athens?
Yes, yes.
Where was the exhibition, do you know?
In Athens, Kinakotheka, Athens Portrait Gallery.
Oh, okay.
And it was about libraries?
About ancient library.
We lent four manuscripts to this exhibition.
Do you know how to reach Mr. Speckles?
How I could reach him?
Yes, I think so.
There will be a catalogue now in print.
I am thrilled.
Do you think this was open to the elements like this?
Well, I got the screen on that, sir.